docs: Simulate JVM Application Faults (#201)
chaos-mesh/website: docs/simulate-jvm-application-chaos.md

title: Simulate JVM Application Faults
---

Chaos Mesh simulates the faults of JVM application through [Byteman](https://github.com/chaos-mesh/byteman). The supported fault types are as follows:

- Throw custom exceptions
- Trigger garbage collection
- Increase method latency
- Modify return values of a method
- Trigger faults by setting Byteman configuration files
- Increase JVM pressure

This document describes how to use Chaos Mesh to create the above fault types of JVM experiments.

## Create experiments using Chaos Dashboard

1. Open Chaos Dashboard, and click **NEW EXPERIMENT** on the page to create a new experiment.

   ![create a new experiment](./img/create-new-exp.png)

2. In the "**Choose a Target**" area, choose **JVM faults**, and select a specific behavior, such as **`RETURN`**. Then, fill out the detailed configurations.

   ![JVMChaos experiments](./img/jvmchaos-exp.png)

>    For information about how to fill out the configurations, refer to [Field Description] (#Field Description).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For information about how to fill out the configurations, refer to [Field Description](#field-description).
```

3. Fill out the experiment information, and specify the experiment scope and the scheduled experiment duration.

   ![experiment information](./img/exp-info.png)

4. Submit the experiment information.

## Create experiments using YAML files

> The following example shows you the methods and effects of JVMChaos with a specified return value. The YAML files referred in the following steps can be found in [examples/jvm](https://github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh/tree/master/examples/jvm). The default work directory for the following steps is in `examples/jvm`. The default namespace installed by Chaos Mesh is `chaos-testing`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows the usage and effects of JVMChaos. The example modifies the return values of a method. The YAML files referred to in the following steps can be found in [examples/jvm](https://github.com/chaos-mesh/chaos-mesh/tree/master/examples/jvm). The default work directory for the following steps is also `examples/jvm`. The default namespace where Chaos Mesh is installed is `chaos-testing`.
```

Author: @ran-huang Could we use "The example _specifies_ the return values of a method." instead of “... _modifies_ the return values.... ”?

Reviewer 2: LGTM~

> ### 1. Create the target application

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 1. Create the target application
```

[Helloworld](https://github.com/WangXiangUSTC/byteman-example/tree/main/example.helloworld) is a simple Java application. In this section, this application is used as the target application that is to be tested. The target application is defined in `example/jvm/app.yaml` as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: helloworld
  namespace: helloworld
spec:
  containers:
    - name: helloworld
      # source code: https://github.com/WangXiangUSTC/byteman-example/tree/main/example.helloworld
      # this application will print log like this below:
      # 0. Hello World
      # 1. Hello World
      # ...
      image: xiang13225080/helloworld:v1.0
      imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
```

> 1. Create the namespace for the application:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create the namespace for the target application:
```

> ```shell
> kubectl create namespace helloworld
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```shell
    kubectl create namespace helloworld
    ```
```

Reviewer 2: 列表里面的内容应该是要缩进 4 格？chaos mesh 的文档需要这样吗？

Author: 之前好像大多是置顶写的，可以请 @STRRL 看看是否是这样吗？

Author: @ran-huang @STRRL 昨天做其他文档的翻译的时候确认有部分文档是这么处理的，因此现在这篇文档的中英文版本中统一修改了，后续我来在其他文档中也一起修改下。

2. Build the application pod:

```shell
kubectl apply -f app.yaml
```

> 3. execute `kubectl -n helloworld get pods`, and you are expected to find a pod named `helloworld` in the namespace `helloworld`. After the `READY` sign turns to `1/1`, you can proceed to the next step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Execute `kubectl -n helloworld get pods`, and you are expected to find a pod named `helloworld` in the `helloworld` namespace.
```

Author: Since there is "等待其 READY 为 1/1 后进行下一步。“ in the end of the sentence, I will remain the last part of this sentence, PTAL~

```shell
kubectl -n helloworld get pods
```

The result is as follows:

```text
kubectl get pods -n helloworld
NAME         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
helloworld   1/1     Running   0          2m
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

After the `READY` column turns to `1/1`, you can proceed to the next step.

```

> ### Step 2. Obseve application behaviors before injecting faults​

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Step 2. Observe application behaviors before injecting faults​
```

You can observe the behavior of `helloworld` application before injecting faults, for example:

```shell
kubectl -n helloworld logs -f helloworld
```

The result is as follows:

```shell
0. Hello World
1. Hello World
2. Hello World
3. Hello World
4. Hello World
5. Hello World
```

You can see that `helloworld` outputs a line of `Hello World` every second, and the number of each line increases in turn.

### Step 3. Inject JVMChaos and check

1. The JVMChaos with a specified return value is as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: chaos-mesh.org/v1alpha1
kind: JVMChaos
metadata:
  name: return
  namespace: helloworld
spec:
  action: return
  class: Main
  method: getnum
  value: "9999"
  mode: all
  selector:
    namespaces:
      - helloworld
```

> JVMChaos changes the return value of the `getnum` method to the number `9999`, which means that the number of each line of `helloworld` output is set to `9999`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JVMChaos changes the return value of the `getnum` method to the number `9999`, which means that the number of each line in the `helloworld` output is set to `9999`.
```

2. Inject JVMChaos with a specified value:

```shell
kubectl apply -f ./jvm-return-example.yaml
```

3. Check the latest log of `helloworld`:

```shell
kubectl -n helloworld logs -f helloworld
```

The log is as follows:

```shell
Rule.execute called for return_0:0
return execute
caught ReturnException
9999. Hello World
```

## Field description

| Parameter | Type | Description | Default value | Required | Example |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `action` | string | Indicates the specific fault type. The available fault types include latency, return, exception, stress, gc, ruleData. | None | Yes | return |

> | `mode` | string | Indicates how to select Pod. The supported modes include one, all, fixed, fixed-percent, and random-max-percent. | None | Yes | `one` |

Reviewer 2: L111 的 YAML 里 action 和 mode 的值都没有加 backtick `` ` ``，这里的 example 也统一一下吧。

Author: 不过下面 161 行开始的内容中都涉及到 action 和 mode 的值，感觉下文中加上 ` 效果会更好些，我们在 111 行的 YAML 里加上对应的 ` 如何？ @STRRL PTAL 谢谢~

Reviewer 2: 不能改 YAML 吧。我的意思是表格里统一一下格式：

- 要么都加上 backtick，比如`` `return` `` ，`` `one` ``
- 要么都不加 backtick，比如 `return`, `one`

> For the meaning of the value of `action`, refer to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The meanings of the different `action` values are as follows:
```

| Value   | Meaning                                   |
| ------ | -------------------------------------- |
| `latency`  | Increase method latency                       |
| `return` | Modify return values of a method                             |
| `exception` | Throw custom exceptions           |

> | `stress`    | Increase CPU usage of java process, or cause memory overflow (support heap overflow and stack overflow)    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `stress`    | Increase CPU usage of Java process, or cause memory overflow (support heap overflow and stack overflow)    |
```

### Parameters for `return`

| Parameter       | Type                    | Description                     | Required |
| --------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------ | -------- |
| `class`     |  string        | The name of the Java class    | Yes       |
| `method`      | string           | The name of the method      | Yes       |
| `value` | string | Specifies the return value of the method | string type, required. Currently, the item can be numeric and string types. If the item (return value) is string, double quotes are required, like  "chaos".    | Yes      |
| `port`   | int     | The port ID attached to the Java process agent. The faults are injected into the Java process through this ID. | No       |

### Parameters for `exception `

| Parameter       | Type                    | Description                     | Required |
| --------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------ | -------- |
| `class`     |  string        | The name of the Java class    | Yes       |
| `method`      | string           | The name of the method      | Yes       |

> | `exception` | string | The thrown custom exception, for example, 'java.io.IOException("BOOM")'.   | Yes       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `exception` | string | The thrown custom exception, such as 'java.io.IOException("BOOM")'.   | Yes       |
```

| `port`   | int    | The port ID attached to the Java process agent. The faults are injected into the Java process through this ID. | No       |

> ### Parameters for `stress `

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Parameters for `stress`
```

| Parameter       | Type                    | Description                     | Required |
| --------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------ | -------- |

> | `cpuCount`     |  int        | The number of CPU cores used for increasing CPU stress. You can only configure one of `cpu-count` and `mem-type`.    | No       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `cpuCount`     |  int        | The number of CPU cores used for increasing CPU stress. You must configure one item between `cpu-count` and `mem-type`.    | No       |
```

> | `memType`      | string           | The type of OOM. Currently, both 'stack' and 'heap' OOM types are supported. You can only configure one of `cpu-count` and `mem-type`.    | No       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `memType`      | string           | The type of OOM. Currently, both 'stack' and 'heap' OOM types are supported. You must configure one item between `cpu-count` and `mem-type`.    | No       |
```

| `port`   | int    | The port ID attached to the Java process agent. The faults are injected into the Java process through this ID. | No       |

> ### Parameters for `gc `

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Parameters for `gc`
```

| Parameter       | Type                    | Description                     | Required |
| --------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------ | -------- |
| `port`   | int    | The port ID attached to the Java process agent. The faults are injected into the Java process through this ID. | No       |

> ### Parameters for `ruleData `

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Parameters for `ruleData`
```

| Parameter       | Type                    | Description                     | Required |
| --------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------ | -------- |
| `ruleData`    |  srting        | Specifies the Byteman configuration data    | Yes       |
| `port`   | int    | The port ID attached to the Java process agent. The faults are injected into the Java process through this ID. | No       |

> You need to write the rule configuration file according to the specific Java program and refer to [byteman-rule-language](https://downloads.jboss.org/byteman/4.0.16/byteman-programmers-guide.html#the-byteman-rule-language). For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you write the rule configuration file, take into account the specific Java program and the [byteman-rule-language](https://downloads.jboss.org/byteman/4.0.16/byteman-programmers-guide.html#the-byteman-rule-language). For example:
```

How about this?

```txt
RULE modify return value
CLASS Main
METHOD getnum
AT ENTRY
IF true
DO
    return 9999
ENDRULE
```

> You need to convert the line breaks in the configuration file to the newline character "\n", and use the converted text as the value of "rule-data" as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to escape the line breaks in the configuration file to the newline character "\n", and use the escaped text as the value of "rule-data" as follows:
```

ditto
